joined now live from Gaza by Gemma
conell she's with the United Nations
office for the coordination of
humanitarian Affairs good to have you
with us so at this point very few
hospitals operating all of them in the
South How concerned are you that as
Israel's offensive now starts to focus
more on Central and Southern areas that
whatever they are able to do those
hospitals May face the same fate as
hospitals in the North
we're absolutely terrified that that is
what will happen and even if the
hospitals were protected which they
aren't we continue to see attacks which
hit hospitals in the vicinity around
them but even if they were protected
they are so overloaded and overwhelmed
that what we're seeing now is both the
casualties that come immediately after
air strikes or tank shelling and gunfire
but also the people who are dying simply
because the hospitals are un able to
treat them I was just a couple of days
ago up in dero balah in alaka hospital
after the magazi attacks and the health
workers there who are such heroes in
this response told me that there is no
way that they can keep up with the
volume of people coming in so when you
walk into the emergency rooms of these
Hospitals now there are people there
with gunshot wounds with open bones with
all kinds of horrific injuries that in
any other place on any other day would
be immediately add but here they can't
because there is someone who's in more
severe need and more urgent need for
surgery and what does that mean for
people like that are are people dying of
what would have been very easily
treatable
issues yes the short answer is yes and
we see it both in the north and in the
South because again these heroic health
workers who wake up every day striving
to deliver the best possible services in
the most impossible condition Ians are
unable to treat everyone and I've been
to the north I was in Al hospital just a
few days ago where the health workers
there can't even do the basics anymore
so you have wounds Infested by flies you
have people who will die of injuries
that should not be killing people and
again these health workers are appealing
to the world and I've promised to share
that appeal back with the world for this
to stop because this is not about lack
of medicines it's not about lack of
supplies it's about the fact that this
war and the sheer volume of people that
it is killing and injuring is too much
for anyone to
take You' mentioned that you've been to
the north just tell us about the
conditions that the 800,000 people is
what has been reported was still stuck
up there what conditions do they face
when they have medical needs when they
have humanitarian
needs they face a gauntlet every day to
try and meet their most basic needs
there is very very little food in the
north once you cross W Gaza there is
hardly anything there for people who are
just literally trying to survive
accessing Health Care is phenomenally
difficult last time I was there I met
with a woman who had tragically lost her
baby because she had had to give birth
in the street because she was unable to
access the hospital due to the ground
forces that were around her home so
accessing food accessing Health Care
accessing water it's extremely difficult
today to get water in Gaza City so there
are tens of thousands if not hundreds of
thousands of people and when you're
there you see them in the streets and
this is something I also want to stress
there are people in the north of Gaza
there are so many people who are there
and they are surviving on the mere
fraction of what it would actually take
to keep them alive so we have to get
assistance into North Gaza at
scale have these strikes are these
strikes respecting the sanctity
of of medical and humanitarian
installations I was listening to your
headline just before just yesterday I
was at the alal hospital in carun after
it was hit yesterday I went with the
Palestinian red present Society in a
show of solidarity to the incredible
staff there and the people that I met
there asked me a very simple question
which is why when we're sitting
underneath the red present emblem are we
not safe and the people who are in
United Nations schools nearly 300 of
whom have been killed while Sheltering
in United Nations schools ask us the
same question why when we're under the
United Nations Flag are we not safe so I
have to say I am not a lawyer and I will
not judge but what I will say is that
what we see every day is attacks that
impact in devastating scale civilian
infrastructure and clearly marked United
Nations and health
infrastructure well using this
opportunity as you speak to us live on
Al jazer what would be your call to the
world my call to the world is so simple
and I've been saying it every day since
I arrived which is that in the name of
humanity this war must end for everybody
for the hostages who've been here for
more than 80 Days who need desperately
to be reun United with their families
but for the 2.2 million people 2.2
million people in the Gaza Strip who now
have nothing left to go on they have
nowhere that is safe and just today when
I was traveling I saw thousands of
people continuing to stream into rapper
where there is literally not a single
spot of land for people to set up any
more a makeshift shelter and even if
they did there were air strikes here
last night so it's not safe here so my
message to the world is simple this war
must end these people the people of Gaza
the hostages in Gaza all of the people
impacted by this war have their own
lives have their own stories and have
lives to live and for them to be able to
live those lives the war must end
tomorrow and it should have ended
yesterday and just a a brief personal
Insight how do you balance between your
responsibility towards people and being
in Gaza means no doubt you're also in
danger
right I sit in an incredibly privileged
position as a United Nations official in
Gaza and so every day my first thought
when I wake up is for the people of Gaza
and the fact that they have nowhere safe
to go and what I am experiencing is
absolutely nothing in comparison to the
fear the anxiety the sheer trauma that
so many people are living through right
now I just want to share one last story
yesterday when I was in Amal which you
saw has also also been hit very close to
there again today I met a mother of a
12-year-old boy Amir who'd been killed
by a gunshot wound that came through a
window into a place that they thought
was a safe place of refuge and they
asked me again to tell the world he had
just had a cousin born 5 days old his
little cousin who had been so looking
forward to having a big cousin and those
are the types of stories I see every day
so for me my own situation is very much
second to every person in Gaza who
deserves to wake up every day to safety
all right thank you so much for your
time and sharing your experiences Gemma
conell
there